Document deployment and configuring adviser in a deployment (#1008)
thoth-station/adviser: docs/source/deployment.rst

.. _deployment:

Configuring and setting up adviser in a cluster
-----------------------------------------------

> In the upcoming secions one can find information needed when configuring a

Reviewer: sections*

> cluster deployment where adviser runs in.

Reviewer: "that adviser runs in"*

Adviser provides hyperparameters that can be tweaked to gain more performance
or obtain better results when recommending a software stack. The upcoming

> sections act as a reference guide how to act in different scenarios when

Reviewer: "on how"*

certain issues are spotted in the cluster or if you wish to fine-tune adviser.

.. note::

>   As adviser shares core parts with Dependency Monkey, most of the details

Reviewer: components instead of parts?

>   stated below apply also for Dependency Monkey.

Reviewer: also apply to

Pre-requisities to run adviser
==============================

To run adviser code, you need CPython interpreter in version 3.6 or above. The
implementation uses native extensions (`fext
<https://github.com/thoth-station/fext>`_) to optimize some of the operations.

The version requirement for CPython interpreter enforces the built-in type
``dict`` to be ordered. This is an implementation detail in CPython 3.6 and
language feature onwards, but the code of adviser relies on this feature
(especially its core resolver algorithm).

The code was tested also on CPython 3.7 and CPython 3.8.

Allocating CPU time
===================

Adviser responds to ``SIGINT`` signal that is handled during the main
resolution and pipeline run. If a ``SIGINT`` is captured, adviser gracefully
stops the current pipeline run with resolution and gathers results obtained
until that point.

This behavior can be naturally used with Kubernetes/OpenShift liveness probes.

Memory management
=================

> To avoid exploiding memory consumption, adviser was designed with few features

Reviewer: exploiting? exploding?

the output. Internally, adviser keeps *count* top rated candidates to report
once the adviser finishes. It's usually a good idea to keep this number set to
1 for deployments. Numbers different than *count* could be considered when
experimenting with adviser or developing it. Naturally, this number cannot be
bigger than ``limit``.

When obtaining *latest* stack, this number can be set to ``1`` which will cause
adviser to immidiatelly terminate once it finds the first latest stack. 

Setting seed
############

To make sure multiple adviser runs result in the same stack, it is a good idea
to set adviser's seed to the same value across mutliple adviser runs in a
deployment.  Note the resolution is stochastic in some sense (this also depends
on predictor used).

Also note the adviser runs depend on results obtianed from Thoth's knowledge
graph. If some relevant parts of the knowledge graph change, different results
might be produced by adviser even if the seed is set to a constant value across
multiple adviser runs.

Beam and it's width
###################

One of the core data structures keeping resolver's internal states is beam (see

> :ref:`pipeline <pipeline>` and :ref:`predictor <predictor` docs on more info).

Reviewer: missing >

docs for more info*

> One can configure its width (maximum number of elements stored at the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beam width is the maximum number of elements stored at the same time and can be configured using a hyperparameter during deployment.
```

time) that is configured as a hyperparameter during deployment. There are few
pros and cons for large and small *width* numbers. The optimal beam width
depends on the stack size, CPU time allocated and memory available per adviser
run in a deployment.

If the beam width is set to a large number, it results in higher overhead
needed for maintaining internal data structure per resolver iteration/round
(see `fext <https://github.com/thoth-station/fext>`_). This overhead grows
linearly with beam width. Also, memory consumption is increased and more CPU
time is spent on maintaining the data structure and obtaining relevant resolver
states.

If the beam width is set to a small number, it will result in a smaller state
space explored (state space of all the possible stacks) possibly finding not
good-enough software stack candidate to recommend. In the worst case it can
result in no software stack resolved as candidates that would lead to a fully

> resovled software stack might be removed from the beam (pushed away by

Reviewer: resolved*
